The applicationContext really is the root of an
application configured with Spring.
And just like we had in our Java configured Spring app,
the AppConfig is this same thing.
They are synonymous.
It doesn't have to be named the applicationContext.xml just like our
AppConfig.java file doesn't need to be named that,
but it's more of a loose standard.
I've seen people abbreviate it appContext or App-Context,
and this is just kind of a default that you see people
do inside of their applications.
By default, though,
Spring will look for a file named
applicationContext.xml without any extra configuration.
A simple view of Spring is that it's just a HashMap of objects,
and we define that HashMap inside of our
applicationContext.xml or our AppConfig.java.
The objects that we have inside of here are pretty much just name value pairs.
Although it's not the intention of Spring,
it can be used as a simple registry,
and we can look up those beans out of our context.
All of our XML configurations begin here,
and for our sample, we're going to call ours applicationContext.xml.
You can have other files that will reference this and look up and pull it in.
It's a little bit more of an advanced topic,
but we can import those things in there.
There are some namespaces that the Spring developers have put
together that help us in our configuration and validation of our
files and really make things a lot easier.
We'll look at adding a namespace to the top of our application,
but in our example here,
we're basically going to put an XML snippet at the
top of our application context,
and you'll know what it means in our bean namespace,
and it helps us configure our files.
Let's do that to our application now.
Adding the applicationConfig.xml to our application is actually quite easy.
You want to navigate down to source, main,
but alongside of Java,
there's another folder that was created when we created
our Maven project called resources.
And if you open yours up, there's nothing underneath yours.
I have a notes.txt in here just so I don't have to type in a bunch
of the XML configuration that we're going to do.
This is one of the drawbacks to the Community Edition to IntelliJ.
The ultimate paid edition actually has a dialog to
help you create this XML file.
The free version does not.
So I want to right-click on source, main,
resources and say New, File, and I want to name this applicationContext.xml,
and click OK.
And it will just give us a blank file.
Now I've gone ahead and searched through the Spring documentation to copy
this XML snippet that I'm about to paste in here in.
You can do the same or you can pull this out of the
resource files for the project, so if you navigate to our course description,
there is a resource download section to where you can pull the
files down if you don't want to go searching the internet for the
Spring XML configuration namespaces, but here it is.
So now we have our file.
It's our beans namespace already defined in this,
and this is the root namespace that you typically will
use for a Spring configuration file.
What this does as we're going through and doing help and
context-sensitive help inside of our XML file,
when we start doing a bean definition by typing a left angle bracket,
you'll see that it pops up the helper context for the different
things that we can put in this namespace.
And that's all done by just including this XML schema
definition at the top of our file.
Let's go through and look at what the namespace is now by us
and how that kind of helps out in us developing the XML configuration a little bit better.